README.md, before:

Pusher
======

A Coldfusion component for sending push notifications to iOS and Android. 

This component will send push notifications directly to Apple Push Notification Service (APNS) and Google Cloud Messaging (GCM) without the use of any 3rd party (web)service.

Features
=========

+ Device registration
+ Multiple devices per user (Also cross-platform)
+ Connect a device to a specific user ID in your database (optional)
+ Broadcast notifications to all your users
+ Send push notifications to a specific user
+ Handle the removal of inactive devices.
+ iOS: Support for both sandbox and production mode
+ iOS: Support for app icon badges
+ Android: New canonical registration ID support
+ Supported DBMS: MS SQL, MySQL

Requirements
=========

+ ColdFusion 8 or higher or Railo 3.x or higher
+ A MySQL or MS SQL database
+ An Apple SSL Push certificate (See [this excellent blog](http://www.raymondcamden.com/index.cfm/2010/9/13/Guest-Post-Apple-Push-Notifications-From-ColdFusion-in-Ten-Minutes-or-Less) by Raymond Camden on how to generate it)
+ Your Google GCM API key (See this post)
+ Install the jar from the /jar path into your ColdFusion class path
+ Don’t forget to restart ColdFusion :)

Installation / usage
=========

### Configuration

+ Upload pusher.cfc into your webroot.
+ Edit pusher.cfc line 3 to reflect your DBMS type (‘mssql’ or ‘mysql’).
+ Edit pusher.cfc line 4 to set your datasource.
+ Call the init() function to create the neccesary database table and pass the neccesary information about the certificates.

```cfm
<cfset pusher = createObject("component","pusher").init(
          mode = "development",
          appleCertificatePath = "C:\certificates\my.p12",
          appleCertificatePassword = "myPassword",
          googleAPIKey = "xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx"
)/>
```

### Registering devices
You configure your Android and/or iOS app to get the device token and send it to Pusher. Registering devices can be done anonymously, or a device can be connected to a user ID in your database:
```
<!-- Example 1: Register an anonymous Apple Device --->
http://localhost/pusher.cfc?method=registerDevice&deviceType=apple&token=xxxxx
 
<!-- Example 2: Register an anonymous Android Device --->
http://localhost/pusher.cfc?method=registerDevice&deviceType=android&token=xxxxx
 
<!-- Example 3: Register an userID with an Apple Device (Same goes for Android) --->
http://localhost/pusher.cfc?method=registerDevice&deviceType=apple&token=xxxxx&userID=123
```
These methods will return a simple JSON boolean to indicate the result.

### Sending messages

Messages can be sent to specific devices, or broadcasted to all devices:
```cfm
<!--- Example 1: Broadcast a message to all your users --->
<cfset pusher.broadcastMessage(message = "Hello to all my users!")/>
 
<!--- Example 2: Broadcast a message to a specific user --->
<cfset pusher.sendMessage(userID = 123, message = "Hello there!")/>
 
<!--- Example 3: Broadcast a message to a specific user with a badge counter update --->
<cfset pusher.sendMessage(userID = 123, message = "Hello there!", badgeTotal = 3)/>
```

### Handling inactive devices

Pusher automatically handles inactive Android devices since we get immediate feedback about the device status after sending a message. Apple push notifications do not work this way. To handle inactive Apple devices you need to call the 'handleInactiveAppleDevices' function. This will retrieve a list of all inactive devices from Apple and remove them from your device table:
```cfm
<!--- Example: Clean inactive apple devices --->
<cfset pusher.handleInactiveAppleDevices()/>
```
Best practice would be to implement this in a scheduled task.

Credits
=========
Pusher relies on java-apns, a Java client for the Apple Push Notification Service. 

https://github.com/notnoop/java-apns
Support
=======
If you have any questions, feel free to contact me.

Rick Groenewegen

rick@aanzee.nl

Commit message:

Added some comments about the use of the application scope

README.md, after:

Pusher
======

A Coldfusion component for sending push notifications to iOS and Android.

This component will send push notifications directly to Apple Push Notification Service (APNS) and Google Cloud Messaging (GCM) without the use of any 3rd party (web)service.

Features
=========

+ Device registration
+ Multiple devices per user (Also cross-platform)
+ Connect a device to a specific user ID in your database (optional)
+ Broadcast notifications to all your users
+ Send push notifications to a specific user
+ Handle the removal of inactive devices.
+ iOS: Support for both sandbox and production mode
+ iOS: Support for app icon badges
+ Android: New canonical registration ID support
+ Supported DBMS: MS SQL, MySQL

Requirements
=========

+ ColdFusion 8 or higher or Railo 3.x or higher
+ A MySQL or MS SQL database
+ An Apple SSL Push certificate (See [this excellent blog](http://www.raymondcamden.com/index.cfm/2010/9/13/Guest-Post-Apple-Push-Notifications-From-ColdFusion-in-Ten-Minutes-or-Less) by Raymond Camden on how to generate it)
+ Your Google GCM API key (See this post)
+ Install the jar from the /jar path into your ColdFusion class path
+ Don’t forget to restart ColdFusion :)

Installation / usage
=========

### Configuration

+ Upload pusher.cfc into your webroot.
+ Edit pusher.cfc line 3 to reflect your DBMS type (‘mssql’ or ‘mysql’).
+ Edit pusher.cfc line 4 to set your datasource.
+ Call the init() function to create the neccesary database table and pass the neccesary information about the certificates. Avoid having to call the init() function multiple times by creating the object in the application scope. This way the connection with the APNS should last as long as the application lifespan.

```cfm
<cfset application.pusher = createObject("component","pusher").init(
          mode = "development",
          appleCertificatePath = "C:\certificates\my.p12",
          appleCertificatePassword = "myPassword",
          googleAPIKey = "xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx"
)/>
```

### Registering devices
You configure your Android and/or iOS app to get the device token and send it to Pusher. Registering devices can be done anonymously, or a device can be connected to a user ID in your database:
```
<!-- Example 1: Register an anonymous Apple Device --->
http://localhost/pusher.cfc?method=registerDevice&deviceType=apple&token=xxxxx

<!-- Example 2: Register an anonymous Android Device --->
http://localhost/pusher.cfc?method=registerDevice&deviceType=android&token=xxxxx

<!-- Example 3: Register an userID with an Apple Device (Same goes for Android) --->
http://localhost/pusher.cfc?method=registerDevice&deviceType=apple&token=xxxxx&userID=123
```
These methods will return a simple JSON boolean to indicate the result.

### Sending messages

Messages can be sent to specific devices, or broadcasted to all devices:
```cfm
<!--- Example 1: Broadcast a message to all your users --->
<cfset application.pusher.broadcastMessage(message = "Hello to all my users!")/>

<!--- Example 2: Broadcast a message to a specific user --->
<cfset application.pusher.sendMessage(userID = 123, message = "Hello there!")/>

<!--- Example 3: Broadcast a message to a specific user with a badge counter update --->
<cfset application.pusher.sendMessage(userID = 123, message = "Hello there!", badgeTotal = 3)/>
```

### Handling inactive devices

Pusher automatically handles inactive Android devices since we get immediate feedback about the device status after sending a message. Apple push notifications do not work this way. To handle inactive Apple devices you need to call the 'handleInactiveAppleDevices' function. This will retrieve a list of all inactive devices from Apple and remove them from your device table:
```cfm
<!--- Example: Clean inactive apple devices --->
<cfset application.pusher.handleInactiveAppleDevices()/>
```
Best practice would be to implement this in a scheduled task.

Credits
=========
Pusher relies on java-apns, a Java client for the Apple Push Notification Service.

https://github.com/notnoop/java-apns
Support
=======
If you have any questions, feel free to contact me.

Rick Groenewegen

rick@aanzee.nl
